let's head to London and speak to Al
jaaz senior political analyst Marwan
bashari joins us now and so it's
interesting Maran that this news that
the CIA Chief is heading to the region
to try and see if he can make progress
uh where there appears to be deadlock it
looks as though for now President
Biden's uh big announcement of a
ceasefire has backfired a little
bit yes I think uh the obstacles are
quite uh confusing for many they are not
confusing to me uh the idea that uh
there was an Israeli proposal basically
embraced and
expanded by the United States then
marketed by President Biden and then
somehow undermined by prime minister
Netanyahu saying that he will not accept
a
ceasefire with Hamas because he will not
end the war War until it achieves its
objectives including the destruction of
Hamas but instead of uh facing this
headon President Biden is now putting
pressure on Egypt Qatar and Hamas to
accept a deal that Israel has not
accepted
unequivocally so there's a problem here
and in order to deal with the problem
the United States is being
ambiguous really ambiguity as strategy
to try to continue to push both sides
send envo
to continue to talk about ceasefire
while Israel in fact carries its crimes
killing dozens of people and we just saw
the images in your in your earlier
report about how entire families are
being decimated by the
Israelis and just to be clear Marana
Washington as you were saying Biden has
been in some ways embarrassed in some
ways humiliated by um America's greatest
Ally in the region although they've
already sort of violated the red lines
around Rafa um that Washington had
already established but Washington's
frustration perhaps not so much about
the savagery of the war itself but the
way in which it's had irreversibly
changed um International and American
opinion uh of this conflict and how that
could possibly jeopardize uh American
strategic objectives in this region and
Beyond
there's no doubt that uh Biden's
credibility has eroded both domestically
and
internationally America standing in the
world and certainly in the Middle East
has been exposed to be uh lacking all
credibility uh and certainly at home uh
with protest movement engulfing many
American cities and American University
campuses uh clearly that's a major
challenge for Biden in an election
so his credibility has has been eroded
for sure and a good reason for that is
because he boxed himself in behind
Netanyahu the past eight months allowing
Israel to carry war crimes and plausibly
genocide according to the international
court of justice but let's let's widen
uh the lens just a little bit Mariam
because we've been talking throughout
the evening about the very specificity
of uh Biden wanting hamash to accept the
deal while Nan does not exactly accept
the deal but just let's back let's back
out a bit and backtrack and and look at
what what are we talking about in the
end of the day we're talking about an
presumably an Israeli deal that became
an American Israeli deal so that's what
we're talking about it's not a Hamas
deal it's not an Arab deal it's an
Israeli American deal that's not exactly
fully embraced by the Israeli government
certainly it has not been voted on by
the Israeli government and many
ministers don't accept it that's one two
within this proposal there are three
phases and the Americans continue to
talk about guaranteeing the move from
the first phase to the second phase or
the third phase where be there will be a
ceasefire but in all honesty in all
honesty who trusts the Americans with
the Israelis who as you just stated on
the red lines of RAF these red lines
became green light certainly green
lights and now the United States
continues to support Israel's attack on
Raa who so who can trust the United
States when it talks about uh uh
humanitarian Aid anymore while there is
famine in Gaza the United States has
been pressuring Israel to allow
humanitarian and Medical Aid in for
months and Israel would not do that so
who can trust the United States to use
its leverage with Israel come the next
phase of this deal and a third and last
point that is really important to recall
that Biden has speaking for a long time
about how this is going to lead to a
two-state solution how this going to
lead to an Palestinian to an Israeli
Arab normalization and a two-state
solution just now the Americans have
dropped the two-state solutions and they
said there is no Pathway to a two-state
solution so suddenly out of the blue the
Americans have decided that their plan
does not include you know a pathway
towards a Twist solution and now because
we have to stick to this thing called
the ceasefire the presumed ceasefire and
hence the idea of ending the occupation
of Palestine and allowing for the
emergence of a free Palestinian Society
in Gaza West Bank and in Jerusalem is no
longer even in the Horizon
anymore we see America going to a great
deal of effort to support Israel uh in
this war and now with the even with the
announcement of this ceasefire this
so-called Israeli proposal though we're
not quite sure where the plan originated
uh we see now that uh confusion that is
coming from Israel's side has resulted
in the deployment of the um the CIA
Chief to the region to now become more
involved but I guess Maran um America
has a great deal of Leverage both uh
financial and in terms of weapon support
but you know so it does have the
capacity to actually uh stop this war
and force
uh Israeli compliance with this with
this deal if it wishes
to absolutely correct um instead it's
for the time being trying to shift uh
the blame on to Hamas just before I came
on air I was watching channel 12 the
Israeli mainstream Channel they were
basically making fun of the idea that
Biden instead of blaming netan is not
blaming Hamas I mean the idea that we
understand that Hamas gave a ton of a
positive reaction to the to the proposal
saying you know we could we could work
with the Americans on this through the C
and the Egyptians of course but the
Israelis basically have said we were not
going to accept a permanent ceasefire
and yet Biden shifts the blame and he
would not put any pressure or use his
leverage with Israel not only that I
mean at this point in time he is
allowing the genocide to continue and
the war crimes to continue and every day
we're talking about dozens hundreds of
casualties continues actually Maran
speaking of of just that this American
and Israeli hostility towards
International bodies not least the ICC
is nothing new but you know here we go
back
to what this has done to uh the American
reputation on the world stage the
so-called rules-based order the idea
that the law must apply equally to
everyone or it's not law at
all well yes you know the the Republican
controlled Congress is really out of
touch with the reality out of touch with
this world it lives in a this ecosystem
called the built Way Washington DC and
it's like a medieval um you know
assembly looking more like Taliban than
it looks like a modern democratic
America but be that as it may the Biden
Administration for the time being said
it is not bored with any such sanctions
against the
IC uh and you know as you know Congress
has also invited netan the war criminal
uh come probably genocide enabler uh to
speak for the fourth time uh to both
houses of Congress this is just
surrealistic you know for any such war
war criminal come you know genocid there
to be invited to uh the the parliament
of uh the world's foremost or or at
least most powerful democracy is really
an athema to everything America stands
for so once again America's
credibilities going down the drain
because of the Congress controlled uh by
Republicans and because of White House
has an a Democrat who would not stand
for what his presumably Administration
stands for human rights at the center of
foreign
policy okay bashara thank you very
much
make sure to subscribe to our channel to
get the latest news from alaz